Instructor: Right, so the first step
into the server side attacks is information gathering.
Information gathering is very important
because it'll show us the operating system of the target,
the installed programs or the running services
on the target, the ports associated with these services.
Now, from these installed services,
we can try and get into the system.
We can do this by trying the default passwords
and we've seen this before
in the network penetration testing part,
where the iPad had ssh service installed,
which basically give you full access to the computer
if the person still uses the default password,
which was at Pine.
So we can do this with any other service,
and we'll see another example here today.
Another thing that we can do is,
there's a lot of people that install services
and misconfigure them.
So we'll have another example of this.
A lot of these services are designed to give access to
that computer, but they obviously need
to have some security implementations.
People often misconfigure these services,
so we can take advantage of these misconfigurations
and gain access to these computers.
Some of them might even have back doors
and we'll see an example of that.
And a lot of them would have vulnerabilities
such as remote buffer overflows
or cut execution vulnerabilities that allow us to again,
gain full access to that computer.
Now the simplest way on doing this is something
that we've seen before, which is using Zenmap.
So we use Zenmap using the IP, we get a list of all
of these services and then Google maybe each one of them
and see if they contain any vulnerabilities.
Now we've seen how we used Zenmap before,
but I just wanna convey the idea of anything is a computer.
And we've seen before how the metasploitable device,
this device is actually a website.
It has a web server running.
So websites are nothing different than this.
If you want to get an IP of a website, all you have
to do is just do a ping.
So for example, if we're targeting Facebook, so all we have
to do is do ping facebook.com
and we'll get their IP right here.
So we have Facebook's IP
and we'll be able to run Zenmap against it
and get a list of all the running services on Facebook.
Now, obviously I'm not gonna do that
because I'm not allowed to do that.
What I'm going to do is I'm gonna run Zenmap against this
metasploitable device,
which basically is a computer device
and that's what we're interested into testing.
Again, I can't really stress this anymore.
Anything is a computer, whether it's a website, a server,
any online service, a phone, anything is a computer.
So you can go about penetration anything the same way.
So I'm gonna run Zenmap
just the same way that we did before.
So I'm gonna go on my activities.
I'm just gonna look for Zenmap and here is Zenmap.
And I'm gonna put the IP of my target
of the metasploitable device,
which was 10.1404.
So remember in the network penetration testing part,
we used to put the base IP
and put it over 24 to cover all the IPs
around us in the network.
In this case, you might be testing a remote IP.
So for example, in the Facebook case, all you have
to do is just put the Facebook IP in there and test it.
Now that's granted that you have permission to do that.
Now I don't have permission, so I'm not gonna do that.
What I have permission to do is test my own device,
which is installed on the same network as me.
So that's why I'm putting that IP.
But you can literally put any IP you want
in there and test it.
So I'm gonna hit on scan
and this will give me a list
of all the installed applications.
Okay, so the scan is finished now
and we have a lot of open ports, a lot of services.
What I advise you to do in this case now
if you wanna do a simple test,
is you literally go on ports, port by port, read what it is,
and Google the name of the program.
So for example, we have Port 21 here, that's an FTP port.
FTP is a service that's installed
to allow people to upload
or download files from the remote server.
So we can see usually FTP services
use a username and a password.
But you can see that this service has been misconfigured
and it allows anonymous FTP login.
So unlike the SSH that we used
before in the network penetration testing we had,
we used the default password.
With this, you'll be able to log in without a password.
So all we have to do is download an FTP client,
such as FileZilla and you'll be able
to connect using this IP address on port 21.
Now, again, I'm not gonna explain
this 'cause it's very simple.
You literally download the application and connect to it.
What else you can do is you can Google this,
this is an FTP server.
You can literally Google this
and see if it has any issues,
if it has any misconfigurations, if it has any
known code execution exploits.
So I know if you Google this now, this particular
application has a backdoor installed with it.
For now, I'd like to show you something simpler just
so that we make this shorter.
So what I'm going to do now is I'm gonna have
a look on the 512.
So let's assume we went on them one by one,
we couldn't find anything
and we reached the 512 TCP port.
So I'm gonna copy this.
This is the service that's running on this port.
So literally, I don't know what's this.
So I'm gonna copy it, go and Google and Google it.
Okay so we're gonna have a look on the first result
that we got here and we can see
that this is a remote execution program.
So that's very nice. That's very cool.
So if we manage to log in with this,
we'll be able to execute commands on the target computer
and it uses the RSHR login.
That's a program that ships with Linux
that allows you similar to SSH, you can, in a way
that lets you execute remote commands on
the target computer.
So let's go back and see how we can connect to this.
So I'm gonna do our rlogin,
and again, I don't know how to use this app,
so I'm gonna do the help to see how to use it.
And we can see that the format is rlogin.
You put the options that you want.
So what's important here is the username
and the host, which is the target IP.
So this is what we're gonna do.
We're gonna do rlogin,
we're gonna put the username as root.
Again, we said root is the user
with the most privileges on the system.
And we'll put the target IP, which is 10.20.
Now, as you can see now, we are logged into
the metasploitable machine here.
And if I do ID to get my ID, you can see
that I am root, if I get where I am, PWD,
I'm in the root directory.
I can list stuff.
If I do a uname -a,
that'll list the host name
and the kernel that's running on the machine.
And as you can see that I am in the metasploitable machine
with the root access.
So this was a manual way, a basic way of gaining access
to the target computer only by a misconfiguration
of an installed service.
So the rlogin service was not configured properly.
All we had to do is just Google what came with that port
and we managed to find, or we managed to log in
and gain full access to the target computer.
Now again, the key point here is you do a Zenmap scan
and then you go on each port that you find, you Google
that port and you'd be looking
for misconfigurations, default passwords.
If this target service came in with a backdoor
or code execution, maybe it just wasn't programmed properly
or it had a flaw that can be used
to gain access to that computer.
Now we'll have examples of these things
in future videos as well.